# Florida 25 Precinct Shape File

This data set contains the 25-precinct shapefile and related data for
each precinct. All possible partitions of the 25 precincts into three
contiguous congressional districts are stored in
[`fl25_enum`](http://alarm-redist.org/redist/reference/fl25_enum.md),
and the corresponding adjacency graph is stored in
[`fl25_adj`](http://alarm-redist.org/redist/reference/fl25_adj.md). This
is generally useful for demonstrating basic algorithms locally.

## Usage

``` r
data("fl25")
```

## Format

sf data.frame containing columns for useful data related to the
redistricting process, subsetted from real data in Florida, and sf
geometry column.

- `geoid`:

  Contains unique identifier for each precinct which can be matched to
  the full Florida dataset.

- `pop`:

  Contains the population of each precinct.

- `vap`:

  Contains the voting age population of each precinct.

- `obama`:

  Contains the 2012 presidential vote for Obama.

- `mccain`:

  Contains the 2012 presidential vote for McCain.

- `TotPop`:

  Contains the population of each precinct. Identical to pop.

- `BlackPop`:

  Contains the black population of each precinct.

- `HispPop`:

  Contains the Hispanic population of each precinct.

- `VAP`:

  Contains the voting age population of each precinct. Identical to vap.

- `BlackVAP`:

  Contains the voting age population of black constituents of each
  precinct.

- `HispVAP`:

  Contains the voting age population of hispanic constituents of each
  precinct.

- `geometry`:

  Contains sf geometry of each precinct.

## References

Fifield, Benjamin, Michael Higgins, Kosuke Imai and Alexander Tarr.
(2016) "A New Automated Redistricting Simulator Using Markov Chain Monte
Carlo." Working Paper. Available at
<http://imai.princeton.edu/research/files/redist.pdf>.

## Examples

``` r
data(fl25)
```
