# Florida 70 Precinct Shape File

This data set contains the 70 Precinct shapefile and related data for
each precinct.

## Usage

``` r
data("fl70")
```

## Format

sf data.frame containing columns for useful data related to the
redistricting process, subsetted from real data in Florida, and sf
geometry column.

- `geoid`:

  Contains unique identifier for each precinct which can be matched to
  the full Florida dataset.

- `pop`:

  Contains the population of each precinct.

- `vap`:

  Contains the voting age population of each precinct.

- `obama`:

  Contains the 2012 presidential vote for Obama.

- `mccain`:

  Contains the 2012 presidential vote for McCain.

- `TotPop`:

  Contains the population of each precinct. Identical to pop.

- `BlackPop`:

  Contains the black population of each precinct.

- `HispPop`:

  Contains the Hispanic population of each precinct.

- `VAP`:

  Contains the voting age population of each precinct. Identical to vap.

- `BlackVAP`:

  Contains the voting age population of black constituents of each
  precinct.

- `HispVAP`:

  Contains the voting age population of hispanic constituents of each
  precinct.

- `geometry`:

  Contains sf geometry of each precinct.

## Details

It is a random 70 precinct connected subset from Florida's precincts.
This was introduced by
[doi:10.1080/2330443X.2020.1791773](https://doi.org/10.1080/2330443X.2020.1791773)

## References

Benjamin Fifield, Kosuke Imai, Jun Kawahara & Christopher T. Kenny
(2020) The Essential Role of Empirical Validation in Legislative
Redistricting Simulation, Statistics and Public Policy, 7:1, 52-68,
doi:10.1080/2330443X.2020.1791773

## Examples

``` r
data(fl70)
```
