# Inverse probability reweighting for MCMC Redistricting

`redist.ipw` properly weights and resamples simulated redistricting
plans so that the set of simulated plans resemble a random sample from
the underlying distribution. `redist.ipw` is used to correct the sample
when population parity, geographic compactness, or other constraints are
implemented.

## Usage

``` r
redist.ipw(
  plans,
  resampleconstraint = c("pop_dev", "edges_removed", "segregation", "status_quo"),
  targetbeta,
  targetpop = NULL,
  temper = 0
)
```

## Arguments

- plans:

  An object of class `redist_plans` from
  [`redist_flip()`](http://alarm-redist.org/redist/reference/redist_flip.md).

- resampleconstraint:

  The constraint implemented in the simulations: one of "pop",
  "compact", "segregation", or "similar".

- targetbeta:

  The target value of the constraint.

- targetpop:

  The desired level of population parity. `targetpop` = 0.01 means that
  the desired distance from population parity is 1%. The default is
  `NULL`.

- temper:

  A flag for whether simulated tempering was used to improve the mixing
  of the Markov Chain. The default is `1`.

## Value

`redist.ipw` returns an object of class "redist". The object `redist` is
a list that contains the following components (the inclusion of some
components is dependent on whether tempering techniques are used):

- plans:

  Matrix of congressional district assignments generated by the
  algorithm. Each row corresponds to a geographic unit, and each column
  corresponds to a simulation.

- distance_parity:

  Vector containing the maximum distance from parity for a particular
  simulated redistricting plan.

- mhdecisions:

  A vector specifying whether a proposed redistricting plan was
  accepted (1) or rejected (0) in a given iteration.

- mhprob:

  A vector containing the Metropolis-Hastings acceptance probability for
  each iteration of the algorithm.

- pparam:

  A vector containing the draw of the `p` parameter for each simulation,
  which dictates the number of swaps attempted.

- constraint_pop:

  A vector containing the value of the population constraint for each
  accepted redistricting plan.

- constraint_compact:

  A vector containing the value of the compactness constraint for each
  accepted redistricting plan.

- constraint_segregation:

  A vector containing the value of the segregation constraint for each
  accepted redistricting plan.

- constraint_similar:

  A vector containing the value of the similarity constraint for each
  accepted redistricting plan.

- constraint_vra:

  A vector containing the value of the vra constraint for each accepted
  redistricting plan.

- constraint_partisan:

  A vector containing the value of the partisan constraint for each
  accepted redistricting plan.

- constraint_minority:

  A vector containing the value of the minority constraint for each
  accepted redistricting plan.

- constraint_hinge:

  A vector containing the value of the hinge constraint for each
  accepted redistricting plan.

- constraint_qps:

  A vector containing the value of the QPS constraint for each accepted
  redistricting plan.

- beta_sequence:

  A vector containing the value of beta for each iteration of the
  algorithm. Returned when tempering is being used.

- mhdecisions_beta:

  A vector specifying whether a proposed beta value was accepted (1) or
  rejected (0) in a given iteration of the algorithm. Returned when
  tempering is being used.

- mhprob_beta:

  A vector containing the Metropolis-Hastings acceptance probability for
  each iteration of the algorithm. Returned when tempering is being
  used.

## Details

This function allows users to resample redistricting plans using inverse
probability weighting techniques described in Rubin (1987). This
techniques reweights and resamples redistricting plans so that the
resulting sample is representative of a random sample from the uniform
distribution.

## References

Fifield, Benjamin, Michael Higgins, Kosuke Imai and Alexander Tarr.
(2016) "A New Automated Redistricting Simulator Using Markov Chain Monte
Carlo." Working Paper. Available at
<http://imai.princeton.edu/research/files/redist.pdf>.

Rubin, Donald. (1987) "Comment: A Noniterative Sampling/Importance
Resampling Alternative to the Data Augmentation Algorithm for Creating a
Few Imputations when Fractions of Missing Information are Modest: the
SIR Algorithm." Journal of the American Statistical Association.

## Examples

``` r
# \donttest{
data(iowa)
map_ia <- redist_map(iowa, existing_plan = cd_2010, pop_tol = 0.01)
cons <- redist_constr(map_ia)
cons <- add_constr_pop_dev(cons, strength = 5.4)
alg <- redist_flip(map_ia, nsims = 500, constraints = cons)
#> 
#> ── redist_flip() ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#> 
#> ── Automated Redistricting Simulation Using Markov Chain Monte Carlo ──
#> ℹ Preprocessing data.
#> Starting chain 1
#> ℹ Starting swMH().
#> ■                                  0% | ETA: 2s
#> ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■          75% | ETA:  0s | MH Acceptance: 0.95
#> ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■  100% | ETA:  0s | MH Acceptance: 0.95
#> 

alg_ipw <- redist.ipw(plans = alg,
    resampleconstraint = "pop_dev",
    targetbeta = 1,
    targetpop = 0.05)
# }
```
